> Perhaps the greatest paradox of all is that there are paradoxes in mathematics.
We are not surprised to discover the inconsistencies in the experimental sciences, which periodically undergo such revolutionary changes that although only a short time ago we believed ourselves descended from the gods, we now visit the zoo with the same friendly interest with which we call on distant relatives. - Edward Kasner; *Paradox Lost, Paradox Regained*.

> If my thoery of relativity is proven successful, Germany will claim me as a German and France will declare that I am a citizen of the world. Should my theory prove untrue, France will say that I am a German and German will declare that I am a Jew. - Albert Einstein; *Address at the Sorbonne, Paris*.

> The progress of Science consists in observing interconnections and in showing with a patient ingenuity that the events of this ever-shifting world are but examples of a few general relations that are called laws. To see what is general in what is particular and what is permanent in what is transitory is the aim of scientific thought. - A N Whitehead

> Man, a child in underestimating himself, has placed in his hands physical tools of incalculable power. He plays with them like a child... The instrumentality becomes a master and works fatally... not because it has a will but because man has not. - John Dewey

> Mathematics has the completely false reputation of yielding infallible conclusions. Its infallibility is nothing but idenitity. Two times two is not four, but it just two times two, and that is what we call four for short. But four is nothing new at all. And thus it goes on and on in its conclusions, except that in the higher the identity fades out of sight. - Goethe

> We are in the ordinary position of scientists of having to be content with piecemeal improvements: we can make several things clearer, but we cannot make anything clear. - Frank Plumpton Ramsey

> For every living creature that succeeds in getting a footprint in life there are thousands or millions that perish. There is an enormous random scattering for every seed that comes to life. This does not remind us of intelligent human design. "If a man, in order to shoot a hare, were to discharge thousands of guns on a great moor in all possible directions; if, in order to get into a locked room, he were to buy ten thousand casual keys, and try them all; if, in order to have a house, he were to build a town, and leave all the other houses to wind and weather - assuredly no one would call such proceedings purposeful and still less would anyone conjecture behind these proceedings a higher wisdom, unraveled reasons, and superior prudence. " [Yet so is Nature...] - J W N Sullivan (The words quoted by Sullivan are from Lange, *History of Materialism*.)

> Pure mathematics consists entirely of such assertions as that, if such and such a proposition is true of anything, then such and such proprosition is true of that thing. It is esssential not to discuss whether the first proposition is really true, and not to mention what the anything is of which it is supposed to be true... If our hypothesis is about anything and not about some one or more particular things, then our deductions constitute mathematics. Thus, mathematics may be defined as the subject in which we never know what we are talking about nor whether what we are saying is true or not. - Bertrand Russell; *[Mathematics and the Metaphysicians](https://users.drew.edu/~jlenz/br-ml-ch5.html)*.

> Mathematics is the most exact science and its conclusions are capable of absolute proof. But this is so only because mathematics does not attempt to draw absolute conclusions. All mathematics truths are relative and conditional. - Charles Proteus Steinmetz

> ...there are two modes of acquiring knowledge, namely, by reasoning and experience. Reasoning draws a conclusion and makes us grant the conclusion, but that does not make the conclusion certain, nor does it remove doubt so that the mind may rest on the intuition of truth, unles the mind discovers it by the path of experience; since many have the arguments relating to what can be known, but because they lack the experience, they neglect the arguments and neither avoid what is harmful nor follow what is good. For, if a man who has never seen a fire should prove by adequate reasoning that fire burns and injures things and destroys them, his mind would not be satisfied thereby, nor would he avoid fire, until he placed his hands or some combustible substance in the fire, so that the might prove by experience that which reasoning taught. But when he has actual experience of combustion, his mind is made certain and rests in the full light of truth. Therefore, reasoning does not suffice, but experience does. - Roger Bacon

> As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain; and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality. - Albert Einstein
