* [In my darkest moments](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7175335629273124865?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7175335629273124865%2C7175372733193625600%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287175372733193625600%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7175335629273124865%29)
    > In my darkest moments, I realized that even as I was shedding tears of betrayal, I was trusting something;<br>
    Even as I was angry that I was all alone, I was holding onto something.<br>
    I chose to call it God.<br>
    You can choose to call it anything. You can choose to find it anywhere.<br>
    In the words you write to heal, in the courage you (A) took to reach out, in the help you extend to strangers... <br>
    But if you choose to find it in my mere words, then you have an incredible gift of goodness, don't you?<br>
    I pray that goodness dissolves the screams of your nightmares into the soft rustling of leaves on a peaceful night.<br>
    I pray that goodness gives you the strength to wake up to the rising sun waiting to embrace you... 

* [Sometimes](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7175330849410748416?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7175330849410748416%2C7175365734305345537%29&replyUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7175330849410748416%2C7175374628301799424%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287175365734305345537%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7175330849410748416%29&dashReplyUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287175374628301799424%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7175330849410748416%29)
    > Sometimes I see life as a puzzle to solve,<br> 
Sometimes I see it as an emotion to experience,<br> 
Sometimes I see it as a pain to bear,<br> 
Sometimes I see it as a scream to let out,<br> 
Sometimes I see it as a memory to cherish,<br> 
Sometimes I see it as a gift to be opened,<br> 
Everytime I see it as a moment to be lived.<br> 
Until I don't.  

* [The use of ChatGPT](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7174311690375745536?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7174311690375745536%2C7174357082454851584%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287174357082454851584%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7174311690375745536%29)
    > I've found it useful in scenarios where there are lots of opinions available and you don't want to have to go through all of them. Like, you want to prepare on a subject for an interview. 
But the utility is only to the extent of removing the burden of choice; the burden of verification remains. 
I thought I could see it as a good summarizer. But I can't even be sure of that!
When it comes to coding, I think its effect is insidious, particularly when it comes to testing the examples that it provides. Insidious because if those examples were to pass through one's rudimentary tests, then it would, even if subtly, reinforce their perception of ChatGPT as an encyclopedia (a fact dispenser, if you will) or a problem solver, which it is NOT.

* [A reader's attention](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7175761790474014720?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7175761790474014720%2C7176638830651867136%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287176638830651867136%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7175761790474014720%29)
    > <p>148 comments, currently. Read through all of them. I just wanted to try it as an exercise, for this post in particular. It was a struggle. Finally, managed to only skim most of the comments. Very few comments I read word for word. And, this, for thoughts that are eloquently expressed and content that I indeed like.</p> I used to read entire novels (on screen) when I was a kid. Recently, I could manage only blogs/articles. Now, at most a LinkedIn post. But what I find is that sometimes I get the context only by reading the comments. So, to get a good idea substantial text is required. But if it were all expressed in a post, I would most likely have skipped it. Also, many others may not have needed the comments to get the idea. But there's an additional gain to the extra content in the comments &mdash; the different perspectives.</p> The utility in understanding an idea holistically can never be diminished. But what our short attention spans have done is to reduce our interest to seek out different perspectives. And short-form content encourages us to be comfortable with short attention spans.</p>

* [Serendipity's modus operandi](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7170326187271933952?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7170326187271933952%2C7170409351910813697%29&replyUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7170326187271933952%2C7170426073829027840%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287170409351910813697%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7170326187271933952%29&dashReplyUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287170426073829027840%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7170326187271933952%29)
    > I think much of our effort is put in trying to define what MEANINGFUL action must look like. And, many define "meaning" based on the results, and worry about results by looking for them only in the expected places. It seems impractical to search for results in the unexpected places (like trying to know things that you don't know that you don't know). But results do often come to us in unexpected ways, don't they?

* [Heritage as a gatekeeper](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7166701608335052800?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7166701608335052800%2C7170397183572201472%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287170397183572201472%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7166701608335052800%29)
    > I was thinking about innovation in the music industry recently. And I find this relatable, if I view heritage as an expert. So much of the innovation is in recreating different versions of the classics. And so often new pieces are compared to the classics and discouraged. I wonder if heritage, apart from bookkeeping, has the consequence, even if unintended, of gatekeeping. </p> PS: The Experimental History substack is one of my favorites!

* [Dream or "reality"?](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7167356717276643328?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7167356717276643328%2C7167371529465393152%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287167371529465393152%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7167356717276643328%29)
    > Some realities seem as distant as a dream.<br>
    Some dreams seem as close as the reality.<br>
    In the end, it's all a memory...</p> And when I realise that all life is mostly a memory except for this present moment &mdash; that has already passed &mdash; I wonder, how different is the memory of reality from the memory of a dream?

* [Revulsion for black](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7166020697033572352?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7166020697033572352%2C7166358263712665600%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287166358263712665600%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7166020697033572352%29)
    > I once collected my thoughts on this and posted them here. Without getting descriptive, mainly because I have no answers (but also due to space constraints), I'll recall some of them here:<br>
    Do we need colors for representing "good" and "bad"? Who decided that white should go for good and black to bad?<br>
    Why, in comics, are gods depicted as fair-skinned and demons as dark-skinned?<br>
    Is it ok to use such representations for metaphorical purposes ONLY?<br>
    Where do we draw the line between metaphor and reality?<br>
    Isn't the relation of the color "black" with bad, dirt, evil, burnt, unhealthy, etc. the cause for centuries of the most atrocious treatment of people with dark skin?<br> 
    Isn't that also the basis for phrases like "black market"? How did "fair" also get the connotation of being just?<br> 
    Am I being too "woke" if I think about this from the perspective of etymology?<br>
    But it isn't about the color itself, is it? We like black shirts, blazers, etc.<br>
    Yet there's something about black skin, a feeling of revulsion that we don't see in infants!

* [Stepping into the same river twice](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7165977320262983681?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7165977320262983681%2C7166027915216797696%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287166027915216797696%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7165977320262983681%29)
    > One of the hardest lessons I learnt (still learning) was that no matter how EXACTLY I say the words and PRECISELY plan my movements, I can't magically expect the past to be the present. Reading this, it hit me with such a force how entrenched was my hope in such MAGIC.

* [The universality of "God"](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7163376214458531843?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7163376214458531843%2C7163559119424094208%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287163559119424094208%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7163376214458531843%29)
    > I find the idea of Love so universal that any time you want to describe it you have to condense it to a particular instance. And that instance may mean everything to someone and absolutely nothing to someone else. And, in this sense, I find it much like the idea of God. If I ask someone, "Do you believe in God?", whether they say yes or no, I'd have learnt essentially nothing. Much the same with Love for me.

* [Dignity of labour](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7162358163059515392?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7162358163059515392%2C7162453156994514944%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287162453156994514944%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7162358163059515392%29)
    > I think there's also a little joy in collective learning. We used to have these activities on weekends to assimilate the idea of "dignity of labour". We'd be divided into groups. And within my group, we used to have a competition between sub-groups about who makes their place the cleanest. (No pushing off dirt to other sub-groups!) Sometimes there were rewards. Often nothing. But it was always fun for me.

* [The lack of nuance](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7158366766019076096?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7158366766019076096%2C7158492490646396930%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287158492490646396930%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7158366766019076096%29)
    > I've been thinking about this lately: what someone shares from their experience seems to be taken almost as gospel by others. </p>For example, suppose someone says, "I wake up at 5am... I am successful." He's successful BECAUSE he wakes up at 5am. If it works for him, it should work for me. If it's not working for me, I'm not trying hard enough. And so it's driven by the people who say it and by the people who want a mechanism to achieve the success that the "successful" people are projecting here.</p> And I've noticed this in more ways. In the way people find the need to add multiple disclaimers when posting an idea, and in the way people attack in the comments, there doesn't seem to be much space for nuance here &mdash; a world of assumptions, generalisations, and exhortations.

* [Solving a problem](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7158004175149158402?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7158004175149158402%2C7158127380606152704%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287158127380606152704%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7158004175149158402%29)
    > I don't think if what I've experienced is similar to what you've described here, but I've been, multiple times, in the situation where I'd be working on a problem for quite some time only to eventually ask myself what exactly am I trying to solve and what exactly did I need to solve. And each time I berated myself for being so stupid to have spent so much time in trying to solve a problem without being clear of what exactly the problem was in the first place. Yet before I began to solve, I thought I had a good idea of what I wanted to solve.</p>I did make a mental note sometime that I should probably read about this. Is it a common experience with people? Do we generally tend to attempt a problem once we get a feeling for it, even if, in retrospect, we were to realize that we never actually understood it?

* [Manufacturing vs Services (jobs)]()
    > I think we don't value factory jobs because we think it's easily trainable and, thereby, easily replaceable  &mdash; replaceable by other humans and by machines. We'll soon stop valuing even services that can be easily trainable. (By "trainable", I mean you have a well-defined objective and a well-defined set of steps to achieve it.) But rendering a service redundant can itself be offered as a service.</p>Nonetheless, neither can be made too redundant to remove humans entirely  &mdash; from manufacturing or services.You introduce machines into manufacturing, who'll maintain the machines (and who'll build them, in the first place)? You introduce "AI" into a service, someone'll be there ready with a service on how to optimally parametrise the "AI" to truly make the service redundant.</p>
    "I like manufacturing... There's something to see as a result." I think that makes it less abstract compared to services. And we cash in on the abstractness of services. Anything can be turned into a service. And if it's not algorithmiseable (if it can be only done through "experience", "intuition", etc.), it's less replaceable. And that's all, it seems, is enough for us to consider it sustainable.

* [Controlling sleep](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:ugcPost:7153233074242076672?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28ugcPost%3A7153233074242076672%2C7153253651476602880%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287153253651476602880%2Curn%3Ali%3AugcPost%3A7153233074242076672%29)
    > This made me post a bit of my experience wrestling myself to sleep. I've believed sleep to be, for some time, a wasteful necessity, seeking ways to minimize it in order to spend my time "optimally". Until the day I realised that sleep should not be treated as a slave to be controlled. And that day, I tell you, I was frightened like I'd never been!

* [Learning math](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7152546424826593280?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7152546424826593280%2C7152977277683679232%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287152977277683679232%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7152546424826593280%29)
    > A very interesting article... I do think conventional education (particularly competitive exams) has overfit us to solve a problem rather than think about it. But why?</p>It's easier to teach someone how to solve than how to think. And people prefer to teach what CAN be taught over what NEEDS to be taught. It's easier to follow a framework. How do you have a framework to teach someone to be open-minded? Perhaps one can be made. But I think it could be argued that it'd encumber as much as it'd enlighten.</p>I think math has always been taught as a language. But the contexts in which it's expressed are limited in our education (which, some could argue, is only practical). That I think is the key difference between the kids of Germany and Einstein (ref. your article)  &mdash; the kids can solve a four-dimensional coordinate geometry problem for an exam but they don't know how it relates to the structure of our universe simply because there's not much motivation to think along those lines (while there's ample motivation to get good grades). If you were to talk to them about some 4d phenomena, they'd relate, presumably, only if described in the form of some equations that they typically see in their exams.

* [Is the Holocaust true?](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7149311623944433664?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7149311623944433664%2C7149328634778914816%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287149328634778914816%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7149311623944433664%29)
    > I think many of us (who have not lived in that era) take it upon trust that the Holocaust is true. (And there are so many other things that we simply trust. I've never "scientifically" verified that my parents are indeed my parents, for example. Even if I did conduct some test, why do I trust the process of that "scientific" test?)</p>Now, the deniers like to question the established. And that's okay. But I THINK (I'm not sure) many stop with just questioning. And expect the people who trust the Holocaust to be true to PROVE it to be so. It's like having a debate with someone and their only counter argument is "But can you prove it?" If there's something that needs prohibition, then it's that kind of argumentation that needs it.</p>If, instead, the deniers actually have a whole theory of what must have happened instead of the Holocaust, then I think most of us would be bothered to find the truth only if finding it affects us directly. And, particularly because the Holocaust is so tragic, even discussing about whether such theories should be discussed or not becomes complicated.

* [The assignment of life](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7142722688745189377?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7142722688745189377%2C7142754094527537152%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287142754094527537152%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7142722688745189377%29)
    > (Regarding the quote) I came across something very similar (I forget where but):</p>"When I was five, my mother used to tell me that happiness is the key to life. When I went to school, they asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up. I wrote down 'happy.' They told me I didn't understand the assignment. I told them they didn't understand life."

* [What defines a poem?](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7140609794188423168?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7140609794188423168%2C7140920642408751104%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287140920642408751104%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7140609794188423168%29)
    > Structurally, I don't know what defines a poem. For me, it's mostly just about not having too many sentences, definitely not long ones at least, and not having more than a phrase or a sentence in a single line. Punctuation? No clue. But the more important defining characteristic for me is that it shouldn't be too explanatory. </p>At times, I have had an idea and a phrase come to my mind which, prima facie, don't seem to be quite connected. (Love the separation of the idea from the poem.) But I put it down, nevertheless. And then I find some beautiful connections from the phrase to the idea. (But I don't explain all that, for it's no longer a poem then.) And not just connections to the idea I had, the phrase sparks new interpretations, leading to new ideas... And so it flows.

* [Celebrating scammers](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7139885113256894464?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7139885113256894464%2C7140332854604967936%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287140332854604967936%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7139885113256894464%29)
    > I'll just say that this opened my eyes. And I'm grateful to be connected to you... For this post and all the comments here.

* [Defining therapy](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7138007989831012352?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7138007989831012352%2C7138042757431914498%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287138042757431914498%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7138007989831012352%29)
    > Khosla's statement seems to suggest that only a certain kind of people need mental health therapy. But we all need it (physical or mental) don't we, Smitha Murthy? One of my favorite descriptions of therapy (resonates well with how you ended the post): "A lot of people come to therapy to find a cure to their ailments. 'Cure' is a misleading word. Your feelings, problems, issues will keep coming back. It is inevitable. Therapy just gives a structure &mdash; a path to understanding yourself."

* [Regret vs Gratitude](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7135470671337328640?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7135470671337328640%2C7135528699155681280%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287135528699155681280%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7135470671337328640%29)
    > I see regret as still water and gratitude as a free-flowing river. 
And still waters run deep. (I've given it some thought and can elaborate more on that analogy. But I'd rather leave it at that. It'd be too long for a comment anyways. :))

* [Openness of a post](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7134090555474468864?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7134090555474468864%2C7134136975200030720%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287134136975200030720%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7134090555474468864%29)
    > This is perhaps the most reasonable analysis I've read. But can we look at a new post, just posted without any reactions yet, and say if it's "open" or not? I don't think I could. I wonder if it's too subtle to be evident before a post gets its reactions and visible enough to explain the reactions that it does get later on. 

* [In the lap of nostalgia](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7132210000017440768?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7132210000017440768%2C7132229225528328195%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287132229225528328195%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7132210000017440768%29)
    > I always find it more comforting to sleep in the lap of nostalgia than to wake up to an uncertain future. But I guess few things are more painful than to live most days with an expectation that it doesn't change, that it just stays; to live each moment as a conflict between the impossibility of that expectation and the inevitability of time. To reminisce such a lovely incident, to realize that nothing stays the same, yet to see it all, somehow, as a gift, and to be hopeful of the possibilities to come &mdash; that is some perspective! Truly inspiring. Thank you for sharing, Smitha Murthy!

* [To prevent being dogmatic](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7130100294360674305?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7130100294360674305%2C7130122631139246080%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287130122631139246080%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7130100294360674305%29)
    > I think we always believe in things that we like. Even if it's an opinion I didn't like, if I accepted it, I'd have done so only because I liked the reasoning that led to it. So, there's indeed a like underlying it. I think if our likes are for more abstract things like reason, inclusivity, eloquence, etc. it seems like we'd be less prone to being dogmatic over a subject. There's a study that comes to mind that Kahnemann mentions in "Thinking, Fast and Slow", of people finding slogans that included rhyming words more trustworthy! I forgot if he gave a reason for WHY we find it so.<br>PS: I miss the "curious" reaction. This post definitely needed one!

* [Writing - profession vs expression](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7129747236451717120?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7129747236451717120%2C7129762284972736512%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287129762284972736512%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7129747236451717120%29)
    > You've beautifully captured some of the thoughts I've had as well on this dilemma between writing as a profession and writing as simply a means to expression. Currently, I find the latter liberating and the former confining. (But I haven't spoken much to people like content writers and others who need to produce output on a consistent basis within deadlines.)</p>But even with the latter, the fact that I write on LinkedIn &mdash; a public platform &mdash; makes me consciously (and sub-consciously too maybe) imbibe the writing styles of people whose posts I enjoy reading. And, thereby, develop "my style" organically with a baseline expectation that it sparks some reaction and, more important, a conversation (although that happens very rarely for me yet).

* [It's "funny"!](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7129379422838640640?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7129379422838640640%2C7129452766204215297%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287129452766204215297%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7129379422838640640%29)
    > I get terrified at the thought of finding something funny that wasn't intended to be (because I'm generally quite a sensitive person). And there was a time when I used to be embarrassed about not finding something funny that was intended to be (like everyone else gets the joke but me). </p>Initially when I came across your posts, there were a few times when I found the way you expressed some things or your segues quite hilarious. But I was afraid to say that. Afraid that it would come across as disrespecting the post in some sense. Because I felt generally your posts are very thought-provoking. (So I used to just "like" it and move on.) Over a period of time I grew confident in noticing that you've an excellent sense of humor, and I LOVE it!

* [Memory vs Reminder](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7125389509034176512?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7125389509034176512%2C7125397075587993600%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287125397075587993600%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7125389509034176512%29)
    > Wow!! This is so utterly me! And whenever I catch myself of this and realize that I'm letting "... the past remain the present indefinitely" I start seeing this documentation as a bad habit that I want to get rid of. But I can't. "Imagine if we didn't have this to look back on!" So relatable! Everything is special. Nothing is special. Only thing I didn't get: the distinction between memory and reminder. Any memory serves as a reminder of the time the memory was created, doesn't it?

* [The Democracy of Social Media](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7122220121640550402?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7122220121640550402%2C7122254154021945345%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287122254154021945345%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7122220121640550402%29)
    > I'm not sure about this but I wonder if the technology we have today and the consequent amplification of our voices at scale has changed the way we react to opinions we don't like. I think in the past it was easier, if we didn't like an author, to just say to oneself that they was a [whatever] and go on with our lives. But now, it's vastly easier to find a significantly large group of people who see things the way you do and get deep into a pod of self-affirmation. I think I'm grossly over-simplifying when I see it as a past vs present issue, and I'm not cribbing about social media. But I do think our technology today has heightened the necessity with which we must consider this observation by Isaac Asimov: "There is a cult of ignorance in the (world), and there has always been. The strain of anti-intellectualism has been a constant thread winding its way through our political and cultural life, nurtured by the false notion that democracy means my ignorance is just as good as your knowledge."

* [The need for templates](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7120301078155288576?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7120301078155288576%2C7120340678324232193%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287120340678324232193%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7120301078155288576%29)
    > Even with AI tools leveling the playing field, we still see people finding a way to be seen as an "expert" in seemingly commonplace things. (Eg. Prompt Engineering.) And thereby creating a divide again: "If you don't follow this template, you're missing out big time! Here, STEAL IT from me for only... " And it all has to be templated. Bullet points. Formal. Condensed. Follow this and you'll be successful in your career. Just like in school: Read these and you'll do well in exams. I wonder why they become so popular. Is it a kind of learning we fundamentally NEED?

* [A mathematical analogy for time](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7114863391164256256?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7114863391164256256%2C7115259269268074496%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287115259269268074496%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7114863391164256256%29)
    > This makes me wonder what indeed do I understand by time. But in trying to think about the flow of time, a mathematical analogy came to my mind: You cannot get a line simply by plotting points along a line; it'd simply be a discrete collection of points, no matter how close to each other you plot them. Continuity is a property of the line that cannot be obtained through points alone. Yet, a line is made up of points and nothing else! A point is zero-dimensional. A line is one-dimensional. Tangentially, I find it intriguing to think about the idea that a line could be viewed as a circle that meets itself at infinity.

* [Truth vs conspiracy](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7115227336639164416?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7115227336639164416%2C7115239217001111552%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287115239217001111552%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7115227336639164416%29)
    > What's the difference between a conspiracy theory and the truth? Six months.

* [The ubiquity of the Transformer](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7072916566241120256?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7072916566241120256%2C7074275941438361600%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287074275941438361600%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7072916566241120256%29)
    > Why are transformers nearly universal today? I think the advent of the Vision Transformer clearly indicated that transformers employ a more general mechanism than CNNs. Traditionally, the focus in image processing was on coming up with kernels that could help us learn appropriate features. With the advent of CNNs, we let the model figure out the kernels on its own. And now with transformers, we let the model figure out the convolution mechanism itself!</p>CNNs and RNNs come with a set of inductive biases, which render them very useful in their domain &mdash; images and sequences, respectively. Transformers are more general &mdash; more than MLPs too! (But it seems that Transformers are not the most general architecture we have today. Transformers are basically Graph Neural Networks.)</p>In this pursuit of generalization, we pay the price of data. Transformers need lot more data to come to a footing that CNNs start off from (with their inductive bias). The benefit of generalization is that it lends itself readily to multi-modal architectures combining text and image, for example.</p>PS: Some do believe that explaining the generalizability of Transformers using the weak inductive bias of the multi-head self-attention mechanism is simplistic.

* [The perils of AI adoption](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7049274371470696448?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7049274371470696448%2C7049388933100556288%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287049388933100556288%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7049274371470696448%29)
    > With our desire to want the end product, we've become increasingly trusting of the process (and the intermediate products) to get it. (A relatable example for me is coding &mdash; the ease with which we blindly trust frameworks written by someone else.) Obviously, it's practically impossible to attempt to learn about everything that we ever interact with. But the unprecedented SPEED with which (especially) AI products are being adopted and their sheer UBIQUITY makes me wonder if the distance between our ability to use a product and our understanding of its underlying workings is increasing to an extent that we could become victims of our ignorance. Ironically, automation renders us more dependent than before. </p>I'm not an AI doomsayer. But I think if people could ever be deceived into thinking that AI has become "self-aware", it would be through the effects of increased levels of automation. And if a technology can control us, it'd be because of our unwillingness or inability to look under the hood of the various products and services we use in our lives.

* [LLMs and their impact on writing](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7045655032960081920?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7045655032960081920%2C7046039186545487873%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287046039186545487873%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7045655032960081920%29)
    > The good thing about this seems to me that it drives us to focus only on how our writing affects us internally, and to give lesser importance to external opinions. The sad thing is that this view can be beneficial only in that kind of writing that is personal. Any kind of writing that's meant to garner appreciations, get more clicks, or reactions in general, will definitely get cheaper. Watching the rise of these LLMs, if we try and distil the act of writing, I think, we'd find that its benefits are profoundly personal. One important benefit, I find, is that it's a means to understanding &mdash; understanding a concept, our emotions, etc. Though it has become easier than ever to fool others, it's impossible to fool oneself completely. So long as there is a craving for a deeper understanding, help will always be available at the school of writing (to those who choose it), and I think that it's this learning that we're being driven towards to focus on.

* [Nihilism](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7040594615845978112?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7040594615845978112%2C7040622122888572928%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287040622122888572928%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7040594615845978112%29)
    > In the end, we do like to have something that counts for us, right? Maybe that's our "purpose"? I'm just thinking if it's possible to live a life believing that it's all pointless &mdash; pointless in its truest sense. It seems like we need some point to move towards, some objective to drive us in our lives...

* [Good or bad?](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6994571200756604928?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6994571200756604928%2C6994587879221964800%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286994587879221964800%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6994571200756604928%29)
    > "Good or bad?" Is the question about purpose? Is something called good because it has a purpose? If so, then the distinction blurs. For "bad" has a purpose &mdash; to give meaning to "good". If the question about insecurity is viewed with a perspective on how helpful it turned out to be in retrospect, then how do we get a categorical answer? Who do we ask &mdash; whom it helped, or whom it didn't? When do we retrospect? Among other circumstances, our maturity changes with time. And so I realise the quest must never be to categorise. Yet, I'm certain that I'd never wish it on anyone too...

* [Evil doesn't die](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:ugcPost:6975096468437164033?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28ugcPost%3A6975096468437164033%2C6975106624130613249%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286975106624130613249%2Curn%3Ali%3AugcPost%3A6975096468437164033%29)
    > One of the most heart-breaking movies I've ever watched. It reminds me of this: "It isn't that the evil thing wins &mdash; it never will &mdash; but that it doesn't die." - John Steinbeck. Thank you for sharing a much more positive and beautiful message.

* [Mystique systems](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6974263219301326848?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6974263219301326848%2C6974288438405554177%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286974288438405554177%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6974263219301326848%29)
    > "Some systems... especially those we revere... have a mystique... To be granted acces, you must conform. To question is to undermine." Brilliantly put! It's something I've pondered over many times. Why this need for mystique? Does it give a sense of thrill to have some information and not share it with others? Perhaps it adds to their bloated sense of importance? So bloated that the smallest prick of a question can burst their bubble? But I don't think the tone of these questions encourages a nuanced discussion, right? It feels irreverent and, worse, rhetorical. In the pursuit of knowledge, tone definitely must count.

* [The question of identity](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6971725430844186624?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6971725430844186624%2C6972119906926366720%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286972119906926366720%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6971725430844186624%29)
    > "...anything that has existed, always exists... What's gone is out of our reach, but is still as real as it ever was." I find it interesting to contrast this with the following two perspectives:<br>Life or identity lies in memory, in awareness: An entity is alive as long as there's someone to remember it. It has an identity as long as there's someone aware of it.<br>The idea of transformation: We transform. Our perspectives change. An experience may mean something else to us with time. What was real once is real even now &mdash; just in a different way. (Which makes me wonder: Does an experience derive its meaning solely from the perspective we see it in? Or is there a "truth" about it that doesn't change, no matter the perspective?)

* [The generality among the particulars](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6959766186603470848?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6959766186603470848%2C6959787253225181184%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286959787253225181184%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6959766186603470848%29)
    > "The aims of scientific thought are to see the general in the particular, and the eternal in the transitory." - A. N. Whitehead. I think an opportunity to meet such an aim is offered, most explicitly, in the study of mathematics (which is why I love it!). I find it a profoundly satisfying exercise to transcend the particular instances to which an idea can be applied. I think it can only lead us to a deeper and more meaningful truth. (Side note: I loved the alliteration of "bemused browsers of the business..." :))

* [The awareness of a model](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6955053281681244160?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6955053281681244160%2C6955099728300703745%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286955099728300703745%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6955053281681244160%29)
    > How can we test the "awareness" of a model? That is, whether a model is outputting something "knowingly" or not? In this particular scenario, surely the model during training would have associated a particular word with multiple contexts &mdash; its (dictionary) meaning as well as its usage. And this is interesting. Because it does seem like the contexts are all essentially (in Natural Language Processing parlance) tokens, making no particular distinction between the meaning and usage of a word. Yet when you ask a conversational bot (or even a search engine for that matter) the meaning of a word, the meaning is what you get, or examples of it in a sentence and the examples are what you get. I think many deem the model's way of using a word in a sentence as (mere) "statistical association", and ours as "actually knowing the meaning" because for us meaning is multi-dimensional &mdash; it's not just about text, we have cues from (for example) vision and perception as well.

* [What's your competition?](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6950664690477727744?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6950664690477727744%2C6950687170114256896%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286950687170114256896%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6950664690477727744%29)
    > When I think about it, I feel one's biggest competition is with that inner self that sets an expectation for us to achieve, which could be set based on<br>ourselves - "for the work I've put in, I should get such and such thing", and<br>(more dangerously) others - "if so and so could do it, I too can." Now, the competition itself is definitely healthy for growth. But the problem comes when not meeting our expectations begins to affect our sense of self-worth. For example, suppose we've done something that we felt was very creative, but which, for some reason, didn't quite click with the audience. If, in an attempt to find that reason, we start getting into the loop of self-criticism - "I lack the creativity", "I'm not worth it" - then (atleast) it's time to check that inner self we're competing against. Because more often than not its expectations are made, apparently, in a world where it believes either we've complete control of the outcome, or that in hindsight the outcome can always be completely rationalised. Which, unfortunately, is not our world.

* [The price of experience](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6948169535732518914?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6948169535732518914%2C6948185635832614912%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286948185635832614912%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6948169535732518914%29)
    > This reminds me of the kinds of stories where a very experienced person is SEEN solving a problem by doing something very simple APPARENTLY, and quotes a very high price. When asked about such a high amount: "You charge me for the experience..." And this morning I read a post that took it, I felt, to quite an extreme: Pablo Picasso draws something on a napkin, for hardly 5 mins, and is about to throw it away, when a lady asks if she could keep it. He charges a hefty price. She's shocked.<br>
    "You hardly took 5 mins to draw that! "<br>
    "It took me a lifetime to draw it in 5 mins. "<br>
    Though, somehow, I highly doubt that ever happened, it did make me wonder: Every act (however simple or complex) you perform now is a result of a lifetime of experience. Does that mean your prices keep increasing (if one were to base their prices on experience)? Practically, I know, it doesn't make sense... But that does seem to be the logical conclusion if one were to extend the argument.

* [Flawsome is wholesome](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6946695155475193857?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6946695155475193857%2C6946758506557370368%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286946758506557370368%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6946695155475193857%29)
    > "Ring the bells that still can ring<br>
    Forget your perfect offering<br>
    There is a crack, a crack in everything<br>
    That’s how the light gets in." - Leonard Cohen, in the song, "Anthem".</p>
    When I think of it, a "flaw" seems to be anything that does not meet some expectation. And more often than not that expectation is something the society would have set. Unfortunately, we live in a society that considers it a flaw of the fish for its inability to climb a tree, and a flaw of the monkey for its inability to breathe under water. Perhaps the cause for this is our deep-rooted tendency to define (more often for others than for ourselves!) what a human is meant to do and meant to be. Despite the blinding evidence of our unique identities, we've turned blind to our "flaws"... To our "flaws" that defines those identities... that makes us whole... for flawsome is wholesome.

* [Diversity as a hindrance](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6916641586814570496?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6916641586814570496%2C6916648665977683968%29&replyUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A6916641586814570496%2C6916653425942282240%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286916648665977683968%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6916641586814570496%29&dashReplyUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%286916653425942282240%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A6916641586814570496%29)
    > Most of us are trained to say in interviews things like how we've found such and such thing about your company to be so good, so relatable &mdash; to say things that we hope would help the employer understand that we resonate with the company's ideas and culture. So, prima facie, the last sentence in your post made me wonder why would an employer want someone who doesn't gel with his (company's) philosophy, and, conversely, why would I even want to go to a place where I don't think I belong? But then I felt that this must not be what you were getting at, and that this merits a deeper thought and a more nuanced discussion.

* [Uncertainty in decisions](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7188429682365595649?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7188429682365595649%2C7188587754115497985%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287188587754115497985%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7188429682365595649%29)
    > I used to find indecisiveness quite stifling. How are you supposed to take a decision when you're unsure? But I've come to believe that we are quite naturally confident in very uncertain ways.

* [Literature in a class](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7193452267994292224?commentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Acomment%3A%28activity%3A7193452267994292224%2C7193617096285540356%29&dashCommentUrn=urn%3Ali%3Afsd_comment%3A%287193617096285540356%2Curn%3Ali%3Aactivity%3A7193452267994292224%29)
    > It's a wonderful idea!! I've thought about why do feelings of pain and sadness hit us harder when described in some lines... I suppose it's like art.. Why do some pieces inspire more than others... 
And it became like a comparison of the feelings that people go through to create that.. And it felt weird after that. 😅 Studying literature in a formal class setting had a feeling of confinement for me more often than not. There was an air of this is what SHOULD be the take away or THE way to read the poem -- a certain degree of confidence, in which I couldn't find much reason, that that was indeed the poet's perspective.
